README.md, before:

# uLaunch

> Custom, open-source replacement for Nintendo Switch's HOME Menu (qlaunch), extending it with amazing, homebrew-orienteed functionality!

uLaunch is a very ambicious project, consisting on two custom library applets, a custom system application and a custom system applet, in order to replace the console's **HOME menu** with a custom, homebrew-orienteed one.

## **NOTE:** the project is still a work-in-progress. Check what's left to do before release [here](TODO.md)!

- The project is licensed as **GPLv2**.

- For those who are interested in how the UI was done, this project is, like [Goldleaf](https://github.com/XorTroll/Goldleaf), a good example of how powerful [Plutonium libraries](https://github.com/XorTroll/Plutonium) can be in order to make beautiful UIs.

## Are you looking for help with themes? Check [this document](Themes.md) for more info!

1. [Features](#features)
2. [Disclaimer](#disclaimer)
3. [Project and subprojects](#project-and-subprojects)
4. [Installing and removing](#installing-and-removing)
5. [Compiling](#compiling)
6. [Errors](#errors)
7. [Credits](#credits)

## Features

This is the amount of features uLaunch contains, compared to the original HOME menu:

- Homebrew support

  - Launching as applets (no need of **Album**!)

  - Launching as **applications** (no need of **any titles** to do so!)

  - Custom basic homebrew menu

  - Option to add homebrew accessors to main menu (no more need of **forwarders**!)

- Unique, cool extras

  - Web browsing (via web-applet) directly from HOME menu!

  - **Screenshot capturing** from PC itself via *QForegroundViewer*!

- UI

  - Themeable (not the same way official qlaunch themes work)

    - Custom icons, background...

    - Custom **background music** and **sound effects**!

  - Option to show the suspended title in the **background** (like 3DS's HOME menu did!)

- Users

  - PC-like login on startup (select user and use it for everything)

  - **Password** support! (up to 15 characters)

> TODO: add more later...?

## Disclaimer

### Homebrew as applications

uLaunch launches homebrew present (added) to main menu as an application, taking advantage of **flog**'s built-in application title, which was stubbed but not removed, thus it's content can be overriden via LayeredFS and launched.

Since launching this title should be impossible, it might involve ban risk, so **use it at your own risk**. uLaunch **warns on launching titles this way**.

## Project and subprojects

uLaunch is split, as mentioned above, into several sub-projects:

### QDaemon (SystemAppletQDaemon)

> This sub-project replaces qlaunch, aka title 0100000000001000.

This is the technically actual qlaunch reimplementation. However, to avoid memory issues it does not use any kind of UI (except console for development debug, which is removed for releases), and thus it uses 16MB of heap, while official HOME menu uses 56MB.

Instead, it uses [QMenu custom library applet](#qmenu-libraryappletqmenu) (launches and communicates with it) in order to display a proper menu UI.

But, if all the functionality is handled by QMenu, why is this daemon process necessary? Well, mainly since the system applet process has a lot of unique code it's the only one who can use, specially, related to title launching, focus managing...

**TL;DR**: this is a simple daemon process which stays communicated with QMenu to perform tasks it is asked to so, specially with code it is the only one that can access.

### QMenu (LibraryAppletQMenu)

> This sub-project replaces eShop applet, aka title 010000000000100B.

This is the HOME menu the user will see and interact with. It contains all the UI and sounc functionality, password, themes...

### QHbTarget

This is the name for two related projects, whose aim is to target and launch homebrew NROs in a simple way. It can be considered as a simple and helpful wrapper around [nx-hbloader](https://github.com/switchbrew/nx-hbloader)'s code:

#### System application (SystemApplicationQHbTarget)

> This sub-project replaces flog system application, aka title 01008BB00013C000.

This is the process which runs instead of flog, which is used to launch homebrew as applications.

#### Library applet (LibraryAppletQHbTarget)

> This sub-project replaces Mii applet, aka title 010000000000100B.

This is the same process but, like in normal HOME menu and Album, it runs homebrew as an applet. However, exiting homebrew here will exit to HOME menu instead of exiting to hbmenu.

### QForegroundViewer

*QDaemon* daemon process, appart from usual (and special) HOME menu functions, it also sends the console's foreground display via USB as a raw RGBA8 1280x720 ~3MB buffer. **QForegroundViewer** is the PC tool (WinForms) which intercepts those sent buffers and renders them. It is a bit laggy, but can be *very* useful for taking quick screenshots!

Unlike the other projects, this one isn't essential and uLaunch would be perfectly usable ignoring this sent data.

For more technical information about uLaunch and qlaunch, check [this](HOME.md).

## Installing and removing

In order to check uLaunch's installation, you will need to pay attention to the `titles` directory of the CFW you're using.

### How do I know whether it is installed?

Check if folders `0100000000001000`, `010000000000100B`, `0100000000001009` and `01008BB00013C000` exist. (and that they aren't empty, or at least contain a `exefs.nsp` file)

### How do I remove it?

1 - Delete the following folders: `010000000000100B`, `0100000000001009` and `01008BB00013C000`.

2 - Delete **only `exefs.nsp` file** from `0100000000001000` directory (if there is a `romfs` folder present it could be a normal HOME menu theme)

## Compiling

You will need devkitPro, devkitA64, libnx and all SDL2 libraries for switch development.

Clone (**recursively!**) this repo (uses libstratosphere and Plutonium submodules) and hit `make` in root. It should build everything and generate a `titles` folder ready for use inside `SdOut`.

## Errors

If you get a crash using uLaunch, please check:

- If the crash's title is `0100000000001000`, `010000000000100B`, `0100000000001009` or `01008BB00013C000` and **you know for sure you have this project in your SD**, then it is very likely related to this project.

## Credits

- Several scene developers for help with small issues or features.

- SciresM for [libstratosphere](https://github.com/Atmosphere-NX/libstratosphere).

- Switchbrew team for libnx and [hbloader](https://github.com/switchbrew/nx-hbloader), the base of *QHbTarget projects (they're some useful wrappers of hbloader in the end)

- [Icons8](https://icons8.com/) website for a big part of the icons used by the default style.

Commit message:

Fully fix menu logic and UI issues

README.md, after:

# uLaunch

> Custom, open-source replacement for Nintendo Switch's HOME Menu (qlaunch), extending it with amazing, homebrew-orienteed functionality!

uLaunch is a very ambicious project, consisting on two custom library applets, a custom system application and a custom system applet, in order to replace the console's **HOME menu** with a custom, homebrew-orienteed one.

No, this isn't any kind of HOME menu extension, injection, patch, etc. uLaunch is a **complete** reimplementation, 100% open-source, which also takes over eShop and Mii applets and flog system title, for its extended functionality.

## **NOTE:** the project is still a work-in-progress. Check what's left to do before release [here](TODO.md)!

- The project is licensed as **GPLv2**.

- For those who are interested in how the UI was done, this project is, like [Goldleaf](https://github.com/XorTroll/Goldleaf), a good example of how powerful [Plutonium libraries](https://github.com/XorTroll/Plutonium) can be in order to make beautiful UIs.

## Are you looking for help with themes? Check [this document](Themes.md) for more info!

1. [Features](#features)
2. [Disclaimer](#disclaimer)
3. [Project and subprojects](#project-and-subprojects)
4. [Installing and removing](#installing-and-removing)
5. [Compiling](#compiling)
6. [Errors](#errors)
7. [Credits](#credits)

## Features

This is the amount of features uLaunch contains, compared to the original HOME menu:

- Homebrew support

  - Launching as applets (no need of **Album**!)

  - Launching as **applications** (no need of **any titles** to do so!)

  - Custom basic homebrew menu

  - Option to add homebrew accessors to main menu (no more need of **forwarders**!)

- Unique, cool extras

  - Web browsing (via web-applet) directly from HOME menu!

  - **Screenshot capturing** from PC itself via *QForegroundViewer*!

- UI

  - Themeable (not the same way official qlaunch themes work)

    - Custom icons, background...

    - Custom **background music** and **sound effects**!

  - Option to show the suspended title in the **background** (like 3DS's HOME menu did!)

- Users

  - PC-like login on startup (select user and use it for everything)

  - **Password** support! (up to 15 characters)

> TODO: add more later...?

## Disclaimer

### Homebrew as applications

uLaunch launches homebrew present (added) to main menu as an application, taking advantage of **flog**'s built-in application title, which was stubbed but not removed, thus it's content can be overriden via LayeredFS and launched.

Since launching this title should be impossible, it might involve ban risk, so **use it at your own risk**. uLaunch **warns on launching titles this way**.

## Project and subprojects

uLaunch is split, as mentioned above, into several sub-projects:

### QDaemon (SystemAppletQDaemon)

> This sub-project replaces qlaunch, aka title 0100000000001000.

This is the technically actual qlaunch reimplementation. However, to avoid memory issues it does not use any kind of UI (except console for development debug, which is removed for releases), and thus it uses 16MB of heap, while official HOME menu uses 56MB.

Instead, it uses [QMenu custom library applet](#qmenu-libraryappletqmenu) (launches and communicates with it) in order to display a proper menu UI.

But, if all the functionality is handled by QMenu, why is this daemon process necessary? Well, mainly since the system applet process has a lot of unique code it's the only one who can use, specially, related to title launching, focus managing...

**TL;DR**: this is a simple daemon process which stays communicated with QMenu to perform tasks it is asked to so, specially with code it is the only one that can access.

### QMenu (LibraryAppletQMenu)

> This sub-project replaces eShop applet, aka title 010000000000100B.

This is the HOME menu the user will see and interact with. It contains all the UI and sounc functionality, password, themes...

### QHbTarget

This is the name for two related projects, whose aim is to target and launch homebrew NROs in a simple way. It can be considered as a simple and helpful wrapper around [nx-hbloader](https://github.com/switchbrew/nx-hbloader)'s code:

#### System application (SystemApplicationQHbTarget)

> This sub-project replaces flog system application, aka title 01008BB00013C000.

This is the process which runs instead of flog, which is used to launch homebrew as applications.

#### Library applet (LibraryAppletQHbTarget)

> This sub-project replaces Mii applet, aka title 010000000000100B.

This is the same process but, like in normal HOME menu and Album, it runs homebrew as an applet. However, exiting homebrew here will exit to HOME menu instead of exiting to hbmenu.

### QForegroundViewer

*QDaemon* daemon process, appart from usual (and special) HOME menu functions, it also sends the console's foreground display via USB as a raw RGBA8 1280x720 ~3MB buffer. **QForegroundViewer** is the PC tool (WinForms) which intercepts those sent buffers and renders them. It is a bit laggy, but can be *very* useful for taking quick screenshots!

Unlike the other projects, this one isn't essential and uLaunch would be perfectly usable ignoring this sent data.

For more technical information about uLaunch and qlaunch, check [this](HOME.md).

## Installing and removing

In order to check uLaunch's installation, you will need to pay attention to the `titles` directory of the CFW you're using.

### How do I know whether it is installed?

Check if folders `0100000000001000`, `010000000000100B`, `0100000000001009` and `01008BB00013C000` exist. (and that they aren't empty, or at least contain a `exefs.nsp` file)

### How do I remove it?

1 - Delete the following folders: `010000000000100B`, `0100000000001009` and `01008BB00013C000`.

2 - Delete **only `exefs.nsp` file** from `0100000000001000` directory (if there is a `romfs` folder present it could be a normal HOME menu theme)

## Compiling

You will need devkitPro, devkitA64, libnx and all SDL2 libraries for switch development.

Clone (**recursively!**) this repo (uses libstratosphere and Plutonium submodules) and hit `make` in root. It should build everything and generate a `titles` folder ready for use inside `SdOut`.

## Errors

If you get a crash using uLaunch, please check:

- If the crash's title is `0100000000001000`, `010000000000100B`, `0100000000001009` or `01008BB00013C000` and **you know for sure you have this project in your SD**, then it is very likely related to this project.

## Credits

- Several scene developers for help with small issues or features.

- SciresM for [libstratosphere](https://github.com/Atmosphere-NX/libstratosphere).

- Switchbrew team for libnx and [hbloader](https://github.com/switchbrew/nx-hbloader), the base of *QHbTarget projects (they're some useful wrappers of hbloader in the end)

- [Icons8](https://icons8.com/) website for a big part of the icons used by the default style.
