Themes.md, before:

# Theme system

> Current theme format version: 0 (will be first release's one, unreleased yet)

Themes consist on plain directories replacing RomFs content.

- Themes are placed in `sd:/ulaunch/themes` directory.

- A valid theme must, at least, contain a `/theme` subdirectory and a `/theme/Manifest.json` within it (icon or actual modifications aren't neccessary)

Thus, a theme named `DemoTheme` should have its manifest JSON in `sd:/ulaunch/themes/DemoTheme/theme/Manifest.json`. Other assets, like UI, would go inside `sd:/ulaunch/themes/DemoTheme/ui`, for instance.

**Important note:** any content (sound or UI) not found in the theme will be loaded from the default config, thus there is no need to provide every file (for instance, when making UI-only or sound-only changes)

## Manifest

A theme's manifest is stored inside `/theme` directory. It is required for the theme to be recognized as a valid one.

- `theme/Manifest.json` -> JSON containing theme manifest

   Sample manifest JSON:

    ```json
    {
        "name": "My awesome theme",
        "format_version": 0,
        "release": "0.1",
        "description": "This is a really cool theme, check it out!",
        "author": "XorTroll"
    }
    ```

    Note that the name in the manifest doesn't have to match the theme's folder's one.

    Properties:

    - **name**: Theme name

    - **format_version**: Theme format version (new updates might introduce changes to themes, thus a new format version would be out).

    - **release**: Theme version string

    - **description**: Theme description

    - **author**: Theme author name(s)

- `theme/Icon.png` -> PNG theme icon (suggested size: 100x100, but it will be resized when shown in the theme menu)

## Sound

Sound consists on custom *background music* and *sound effects* via files inside `/sound`.

- `sound/BGM.mp3` -> MP3 file to replace with custom music

- `sound/BGM.json` -> JSON file with BGM settings

   Sample sound JSON (with default values):

    ```json
    {
        "loop": true,
        "fade_in_ms": 1500,
        "fade_out_ms": 500
    }
    ```

    Properties:

    - **loop**: Whether to replay the MP3 file again, after it finishes.

    - **fade_in_ms**: Time in milliseconds for the fade-in to be applied when the BGM starts playing. (0 = no fade-in)

    - **fade_out_ms**: Time in milliseconds for the fade-out to be applied when the BGM stops playing. (0 = no fade-out)

    Note: returning to/launching a title/applet and returning back to HOME menu will restart the music.

Sound effects consist on short WAV files.

- `sound/TitleLaunch.wav` -> Sfx played when a title/homebrew is launched.

- `sound/MenuToggle.wav` -> Sfx played when the menu is toggled (from main menu to homebrew mode and the opposite)

## UI

Can be customized via files in `/ui`.

- `ui/UI.json` -> JSON file with UI settings

   This JSON also allows setting custom X and Y positions for several UI elements (and if they are visible or not)

   Sample UI JSON (with default values and some sample elements):

    ```json
    {
        "suspended_final_alpha": 80,
        "text_color": "#e1e1e1ff",
        "menu_focus_color": "#5ebcffff",
        "menu_bg_color": "#0094ffff",

        "main_menu": {
            "connection_icon": {
                "x": 10,
                "y": 10
            },
            "settings_icon": {
                "visible": false
            }
        }
    }
    ```

    Note: colors are in "#RRGGBBAA" hex-RGBA format.

    Properties:

    - **suspended_final_alpha**: Final alpha the suspended title's capture will have (0 would be to fully hide it, default is 80)

    - **text_color**: Color all UI's texts will use.

    - **menu_focus_color**: Color menu's items will have when they're on focus.

    - **menu_bg_color**: All menus' bg color.

    Element customization: consists on menus and items within them, with customizable `visible`, `x` and `y` properties. If `visible` is false, custom X and Y will be ignored.

    - Main menu (`main_menu`): items are `top_menu_bg`, `logo_icon`, `connection_icon`, `user_icon`, `web_icon`, `time_text`, `battery_text`, `battery_icon`, `settings_icon`, `themes_icon`, `firmware_text`, `menu_toggle_button`, `banner_image`, `banner_name_text`, `banner_author_text`, `banner_version_text` and `items_menu`.

    - Startup/user selection menu (`startup_menu`): `info_text`.

    - Theme menu (`themes_menu`): `banner_image`, `themes_menu_item`, `current_theme_text`, `current_theme_name_text`, `current_theme_author_text`, `current_theme_version_text` and `current_theme_icon`.

    - Settings menu (`settings_menu`): `settings_menu_item`.

    Notes: `logo_icon` and `items_menu` items can't be hidden ("visible" property is ignored) and in `items_menu`'s case only Y can be customized ("x" is also ignored)

## General

- `ui/Font.ttf` -> TTF font used for all the UI.

## Main menu

- `ui/AllTitles.png` -> 256x256 PNG for the "all titles" entry in the main menu.

- `ui/Folder.png` -> 256x256 PNG for folders in the main menu.

- `ui/Cursor.png` -> 296x296 PNG for the cursor pointing at items in the main menu.

- `ui/Suspended.png` -> 296x296 PNG for the image shown above the suspended title in the main menu.

- `ui/Background.png` -> 1280x720 PNG for the main menu's background.

- `ui/Hbmenu.png` -> 256x256 PNG for the option (in homebrew menu) to directly launch normal hbmenu NRO.

- `ui/Banner{type}.png` -> Different 1280x135 PNG banners for menu item types (BannerFolder, BannerHomebrew or BannerInstalled)

### Top menu

The top menu is the small bar shown at the top of the main menu, whose background and icons are customizable.

All the menu icons ({...}Icon.png) are 50x50 icons, except battery ones (BatteryNormalIcon and BatteryChargeIcon are 30x30)

- `ui/TopMenu.png` -> Background of menu (1220x85 PNG)

- Icons in top menu (50x50 PNGs): ConnectionIcon, NoConnectionIcon, SettingsIcon, ThemesIcon, WebIcon

> *TODO: more menu icons*

Commit message:

Improve QDaemon, QForegroundViewer and settings menu

Themes.md, after:

# Theme system

> Current theme format version: 0 (will be first release's one, unreleased yet)

Themes consist on plain directories replacing RomFs content.

- Themes are placed in `sd:/ulaunch/themes` directory.

- A valid theme must, at least, contain a `/theme` subdirectory and a `/theme/Manifest.json` within it (icon or actual modifications aren't neccessary)

Thus, a theme named `DemoTheme` should have its manifest JSON in `sd:/ulaunch/themes/DemoTheme/theme/Manifest.json`. Other assets, like UI, would go inside `sd:/ulaunch/themes/DemoTheme/ui`, for instance.

**Important note:** any content (sound or UI) not found in the theme will be loaded from the default config, thus there is no need to provide every file (for instance, when making UI-only or sound-only changes)

## Manifest

A theme's manifest is stored inside `/theme` directory. It is required for the theme to be recognized as a valid one.

- `theme/Manifest.json` -> JSON containing theme manifest

   Sample manifest JSON:

    ```json
    {
        "name": "My awesome theme",
        "format_version": 0,
        "release": "0.1",
        "description": "This is a really cool theme, check it out!",
        "author": "XorTroll"
    }
    ```

    Note that the name in the manifest doesn't have to match the theme's folder's one.

    Properties:

    - **name**: Theme name

    - **format_version**: Theme format version (new updates might introduce changes to themes, thus a new format version would be out).

    - **release**: Theme version string

    - **description**: Theme description

    - **author**: Theme author name(s)

- `theme/Icon.png` -> PNG theme icon (suggested size: 100x100, but it will be resized when shown in the theme menu)

## Sound

Sound consists on custom *background music* and *sound effects* via files inside `/sound`.

- `sound/BGM.mp3` -> MP3 file to replace with custom music

- `sound/BGM.json` -> JSON file with BGM settings

   Sample sound JSON (with default values):

    ```json
    {
        "loop": true,
        "fade_in_ms": 1500,
        "fade_out_ms": 500
    }
    ```

    Properties:

    - **loop**: Whether to replay the MP3 file again, after it finishes.

    - **fade_in_ms**: Time in milliseconds for the fade-in to be applied when the BGM starts playing. (0 = no fade-in)

    - **fade_out_ms**: Time in milliseconds for the fade-out to be applied when the BGM stops playing. (0 = no fade-out)

    Note: returning to/launching a title/applet and returning back to HOME menu will restart the music.

Sound effects consist on short WAV files.

- `sound/TitleLaunch.wav` -> Sfx played when a title/homebrew is launched.

- `sound/MenuToggle.wav` -> Sfx played when the menu is toggled (from main menu to homebrew mode and the opposite)

## UI

Can be customized via files in `/ui`.

- `ui/UI.json` -> JSON file with UI settings

   This JSON also allows setting custom X and Y positions for several UI elements (and if they are visible or not)

   Sample UI JSON (with default values and some sample elements):

    ```json
    {
        "suspended_final_alpha": 80,
        "text_color": "#e1e1e1ff",
        "menu_focus_color": "#5ebcffff",
        "menu_bg_color": "#0094ffff",

        "main_menu": {
            "connection_icon": {
                "x": 10,
                "y": 10
            },
            "settings_icon": {
                "visible": false
            }
        }
    }
    ```

    Note: colors are in "#RRGGBBAA" hex-RGBA format.

    Properties:

    - **suspended_final_alpha**: Final alpha the suspended title's capture will have (0 would be to fully hide it, default is 80)

    - **text_color**: Color all UI's texts will use.

    - **menu_focus_color**: Color menu's items will have when they're on focus.

    - **menu_bg_color**: All menus' bg color.

    Element customization: consists on menus and items within them, with customizable `visible`, `x` and `y` properties. If `visible` is false, custom X and Y will be ignored.

    - Main menu (`main_menu`): items are `top_menu_bg`, `logo_icon`, `connection_icon`, `user_icon`, `web_icon`, `time_text`, `battery_text`, `battery_icon`, `settings_icon`, `themes_icon`, `firmware_text`, `menu_toggle_button`, `banner_image`, `banner_name_text`, `banner_author_text`, `banner_version_text` and `items_menu`.

    - Startup/user selection menu (`startup_menu`): `info_text`.

    - Theme menu (`themes_menu`): `banner_image`, `themes_menu_item`, `current_theme_text`, `current_theme_name_text`, `current_theme_author_text`, `current_theme_version_text` and `current_theme_icon`.

    - Settings menu (`settings_menu`): `settings_menu_item`.

    Notes: `logo_icon` and `items_menu` items can't be hidden ("visible" property is ignored) and in `items_menu`'s case only Y can be customized ("x" is also ignored)

## General

- `ui/Font.ttf` -> TTF font used for all the UI.

## Main menu

- `ui/AllTitles.png` -> 256x256 PNG for the "all titles" entry in the main menu.

- `ui/Folder.png` -> 256x256 PNG for folders in the main menu.

- `ui/Cursor.png` -> 296x296 PNG for the cursor pointing at items in the main menu.

- `ui/Suspended.png` -> 296x296 PNG for the image shown above the suspended title in the main menu.

- `ui/Background.png` -> 1280x720 PNG for the main menu's background.

- `ui/Hbmenu.png` -> 256x256 PNG for the option (in homebrew menu) to directly launch normal hbmenu NRO.

- `ui/Banner{type}.png` -> Different 1280x135 PNG banners for menu item types (BannerFolder, BannerHomebrew or BannerInstalled)

## Settings menu

- `ui/SettingEditable.png` -> 100x100 PNG for settings which can be edited.

- `ui/SettingNoEditable.png` -> 100x100 PNG for settings which cannot be edited (thus can only be seen).

### Top menu

The top menu is the small bar shown at the top of the main menu, whose background and icons are customizable.

All the menu icons ({...}Icon.png) are 50x50 icons, except battery ones (BatteryNormalIcon and BatteryChargeIcon are 30x30)

- `ui/TopMenu.png` -> Background of menu (1220x85 PNG)

- Icons in top menu (50x50 PNGs): ConnectionIcon, NoConnectionIcon, SettingsIcon, ThemesIcon, WebIcon
